# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
in the console Ruby files with the function ".new"

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
In the "save" method in the ruby file

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

All the lines with a method in the code the CRUD ones

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

we do not define the id at the start because ruby passes the data in to get assigned by sql then the data with the id gets passed back.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

it is assignedin the "save" method "@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]['id'].to_i"

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

to make it unique so we cannot overwrite it

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

class methods runs on the whole database whereas instances only execute on one line ie you might only want to delete one line rather then the whole table

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

Execute prepared named statement specified by statement_name.


Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
Prepared statements are used to increase performance, guard against SQL injections by letting SQL know that the data being returned is a string. When using prepared statements, we use placeholders instead of directly writing the values into the statements.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
takes in an id or the address

Q11. What are their return values? The instance of the relevant class
